WIP: 2020 Third Parties Chapter (#1668)
HTTPArchive/almanac.httparchive.org: src/content/en/2020/third-parties.md

## Early-loaders

Scripts that load late in the page will have an impact on total page load duration and page weight, but might have no impact on the user experience. Scripts that load early in the page, however, will potentially cannibalize bandwidth for critical first-party resources and are more likely to interfere with the page load.  This can have a detrimental impact on performance metrics and user experience.

The chart below shows the percentage of requests that load early, by device type and third-party type. The three stand-out categories are CDN, Hosting and Tag Managers, all of which tend to deliver JavaScript that is requested in the head of a document. 

<p id="gdcalert10" ><span style="color: red; font-weight: bold">>>>>>  gd2md-html alert: inline image link here (to images/image10.png). Store image on your image server and adjust path/filename/extension if necessary. </span><br>(<a href="#">Back to top</a>)(<a href="#gdcalert11">Next alert</a>)<br><span style="color: red; font-weight: bold">>>>>> </span></p>

> ![alt_text](images/image10.png "image_tooltip")

Reviewer: @simonhearne If you change these to Jinja2 comments then it won't fail the pipeline and so will give you real feedback on any real issues:

```suggestion
{# ![alt_text](images/image10.png "image_tooltip") #}
```

reviewers: [tammyeverts, jzyang]

> analysts: [max-ostapenko]

Reviewer 2: Also update contributor metadata when you get a chance. List everyone who contributed, remove those that didn't, and order roughly by significance of their contributions (as a courtesy to those that did more)

* Content - providers that facilitate publishers and host syndicated content
* Customer Success - support and customer relationship management functionality
* Hosting - providers that host the arbitrary content of their users
* Marketing - sales, lead generation, and email marketing functionality
* Social - social networks and their affiliated integrations
* Tag Manager - provider whose sole role is to manage the inclusion of other third parties
* Utility - code that aids the development objectives of the site owner
* Video - providers that host the arbitrary video content of their users
* Other - uncategorized or non-conforming activity

_Note on CDNs: The CDN category here includes providers that provide resources on public CDN domains (e.g. bootstrapcdn.com, cdnjs.cloudflare.com, etc.) and does not include resources that are simply served over a CDN. i.e. putting Cloudflare in front of a page would not influence its first-party designation according to our criteria._

### Caveats

* All data presented here is based on a non-interactive, cold load. These values could start to look quite different after user interaction.

> * The pages are tested with no cookies set, so third-parties requested after opt-in are not included. This will especially affect pages hosted and predominantly served to countries in scope for the [General Data Protection Regulation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/General_Data_Protection_Regulation).

Reviewer 3: In the context of GDPR, it may also be important to mention that all of these measurements were performed on servers in the US.  

Also worth including a link to the methodolgy - https://almanac.httparchive.org/en/2020/methodology

{{ figure_markup(
  image="top-domains-by-prevalence.png",
  chart_url="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/e/2PACX-1vSNXusoFJKi8Z1i_yuG_5umUCJOZwBMaZaECq4T8lU5zIQuLR7UHfZOJmXsXzPWQTJFnFa3dcOEPJgy/pubchart?oid=2082639138&format=interactive",
  caption="The most prevalent domains are font foundries, advertising, social media and JavaScript CDNs",
  description="",
  width=600,
  height=371
  )
}}

The next four most common domains are all advertising providers, they may not be requested directly by your page but through a complex chain of redirects initiated by another advertising network.

The sixth most common domain is digicert.com.  Calls to digicert.com are generally OCSP revocation checks due to TLS certificates not having OCSP stapling enabled, or the use of Extended Validation (EV) certificates which prevent pinning of intermediate certificates. This number is exaggerated in HTTP Archive due to all page loads being effectively first-time visitors - OCSP responses are generally valid for seven days in real-world browsing. See [this blog post](https://simonhearne.com/2020/drop-ev-certs/) to read more on this issue.

> Further down the list at 2.43% is ajax.googleapis.com, Google's [Hosted Libraries project](https://developers.google.com/speed/libraries). Whilst loading a library such as jQuery from a hosted service is easy, the additional cost of a connection to a third-party domain may have a negative impact on performance. It is best to host all critical JavaScript and CSS on the root domain, if possible. There is also now no cache benefit to using a shared CDN resource, as all major browsers [partition caches by page](https://developers.google.com/web/updates/2020/10/http-cache-partitioning).

Reviewer 3: Harry Roberts wrote an excellent blog post about self hosting static assets last year, which may be worth linking to here. https://csswizardry.com/2019/05/self-host-your-static-assets/

  width=600,
  height=371
  )
}}

Breaking down by response type highlights some common offenders: xml and text responses are less likely to be cacheable. Surprisingly, less than two-thirds of images served by third-parties are cacheable. On further inspection, this is due to the use of tracking 'pixels' which are returned as non-cacheable zero-size image responses. 

### Large redirects

Many third-parties result in redirect responses, i.e. HTTP status codes 3XX. These occur due to the use of vanity domains or to share information across domains through request headers. This is especially true for advertising networks. Large redirect responses are an indication of a misconfiguration, as the response should be around 340B for a valid `Location` response header plus overheads. The chart below shows the distribution of body size for all third-party redirects in the HTTP Archive.

{{ figure_markup(
  image="redirects-body-size.png",
  caption="Most redirects are under 420B, the 99th percentile is over 30kB!",
  description="Distribution of redirect body sizes showing 90% are under 420B, 1% are over 30kB and 0.1% are over 100kB",
  width=600,
  height=371
  )
}}

> The results show that the majority of 3XX responses are small: the 90th percentile is 420B, i.e. 90% of 3XX responses are 420 bytes or smaller. The 95th percentile is 6.5kB, the 99th is 36kB and the 99.9th is over 100kB! Whilst redirects may seem innocuous, 100kB is a reasonable amount of bytes over the wire for a response that simply leads to another response.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The results show that the majority of 3XX responses are small: the 90th percentile is 420B, i.e. 90% of 3XX responses are 420 bytes or smaller. The 95th percentile is 6.5kB, the 99th is 36kB and the 99.9th is over 100kB! Whilst redirects may seem innocuous, 100kB is an unreasonable amount of bytes over the wire for a response that simply leads to another response.
```

{{ figure_markup(
  image="requests-with-tao.png",
  chart_url="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/e/2PACX-1vSNXusoFJKi8Z1i_yuG_5umUCJOZwBMaZaECq4T8lU5zIQuLR7UHfZOJmXsXzPWQTJFnFa3dcOEPJgy/pubchart?oid=1886505312&format=interactive",
  caption="Less than 35% of third party responses are served with a timing-allow-origin header",
  description="Less than 35% of third party responses are served with a timing-allow-origin header",
  width=600,
  height=371
  )
}}

The results in HTTP Archive show that only one third of third-party responses expose detailed size and timing information to the hosting website.

## Repercussions

> We know that adding arbitrary JavaScript to our sites introduces risks to both site speed and security. Site owners must be diligent to balance the value of the third-party scripts they include with the speed penalty they may bring, and use modern features such as [subresource integrity](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Subresource_Integrity) and [content security policy](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CSP) to maintain a strong security posture.

Reviewer 3: Might be worth referencing the security chapter here, since that should cover both SRI and CSP adoption.
